Hi everyone, welcome to this week's episode of No Such Things The Fish, where we were
joined by the legendary, by the superstar, by the all-round top guy who is Nish Kumar.
And now anyone in the UK will know all about Nish, he is very often seen on our televisions
and now he is on our podcast.
If you are not from the UK and you're not familiar with Nish's work, then after listening
to this episode, you will surely want to go to YouTube.
If you search for Nish Kumar, you will find a full recording of one of his shows and
it's definitely worth checking out his stand-up because it is brilliant.
If you are in the UK or in Ireland, then maybe what's going to see Nish live?
You can go to nishkuma.co.uk and you will find all the dates of his tour there.
He is doing a work in progress at the Edinburgh Festival and then he is going on the road
in September and he is very likely to be at a town near you.
If you would like to know more about us, then go to patreon.com/clubfish.
It's a place to go.
You can sign up there for free and get lots of little bits and pieces.
Or you can sign up to one of our tears and get even more.
In fact, if you go to the plenty more fish tier this week, you will get an extra long episode
of this show.
In fact, you always get one of those, but this show is about 20 minutes longer than the
actual episode.
And that is because Nish Kumar is so knowledgeable about so many different things, especially the
subjects we talked about today.
And so there are so many extra bits, extra facts, extra jokes, extra anecdotes, and it is
all in there.
But if you don't want to do that, don't worry, just sit down and listen to this week's
episode with Nish Kumar on with the podcast.
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Things A Fish, a weekly podcast coming
to you from the QI offices in Hobern.
My name is Anna Dishinsky and I'm sitting here with James Harkin, Andrew Antamurri and Nish
Kumar and we have gathered here today with our four favourite facts from the last seven days.
In no particular order here we go, starting with you, Nish.
My favourite fact that I've gathered in the last seven days is, after James Cameron was
fired from the film Piranha 2, he broke into the studios multiple times in the dead of
night to improve the edit.
What a hero.
Yeah, he cares that much about the craft.
So it's so funny to think of the word craft associated with the film Piranha 2.
Yeah, it's not Bong Joon Ho saying to me, this is cinema, it doesn't quite feel like
that.
To give him his due, I think that is part of the reason why he is, I think he occupies,
I think about maybe four or five of the 20 most profitable films or maybe not profitable,
the most financially successful films, because the sort of common thread of all of his movies
is this sort of almost operatic grandeur being applied to very sort of mainstream conventional
films.
They get elevated by his sociopathic commitment.
So hang on, is Piranha 2 in the top 20 grossing films in the world?
Because I haven't seen it, it's one of the Cameron Irving that I haven't seen.
Yeah, right.
I don't think it's in the top two of the Piranha films.
I think all of the avatars are floating around in there.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I think it's cheating when your sequel is count, which people do it with avatar, they count
avatars and it's like, love them together, because yeah, if you know this one's grossed a lot,
then the next one's probably...
Well, then it will just be Avatar Marvel and then I think like, it'll have to be like,
police academy.
Police academy.
Yeah, I think that's it.
What I found mad about reading about Piranha 2 is how, like you say, it's surprising
that James Cameron cared enough to get it sweet, but how seriously, you all took it because
you think, surely, if you're working on these films in any role, you know you're making
a joke.
Don't worry.
No, Piranha 1 was huge, right?
Yeah.
It was a big movie that did really well.
Yes.
I was just Joe Dante of Gremlins fame, I believe, and then Piranha 2, Cameron had been hired
to work on it.
And we should say it's his first ever film he worked on as a director, and he was hired
to work on it by the producer, and it sounds like it was a nightmare to work on, and he
was fired quite quickly.
Yeah.
They filmed in Jamaica, the outdoor Piranha bits, and then they actually moved to Rome for
the end all bits, and he was fired at the end of the Jamaica bit, so that's why he was
breaking in.
They're like, he was breaking it because he'd been fired from the project, but his name was
still on it, and he thought, this is so bad, I can't let it go out like it is.
The big thing was, there was this guy called Ovidio Asanitis, it's like, to video, it's
almost his first movie.
Yeah.
And he really wanted to be the director, but because he was half Italian and half Egyptian,
the American movie industry wouldn't let him be the director, so we had to bring someone
in, and his idea was, we'll bring a new person in, they won't do anything, but I'll be the
real director.
Yeah.
But then he brought James Cameron in, who kind of took it a bit seriously.
It was so unlucky.
It was one of the most dimensions in single-minded people in cinema.
Because as far as he knew he was a 28 year old nobody, right? He was like, good, I'm getting
an intern on.
And he was obsessive.
We'll see, like, you see a Roger Corman guy, I think he comes out of that sort of, Cameron
comes out of that stable where they were just sort of all being trained to do everything
in film, and then sort of throw now into the wider world.
A couple of years ago, I went to the Academy Museum in LA, where they sort of have various
bits of film ephemera, and they have his concept sketches for the Terminator, and when you look
at the concept sketch of the Terminator, you go, that looks exactly like the film.
Yeah.
That it's exactly like the film.
And so the thing that my main takeaway from looking at those sketches was, this is a guy
with a vision, and this is a man who I imagine will walk through and over anything he
has to do. He does come across as that. Yeah, he's the Terminator. He is the Terminator.
He is a way.
I bet he thought he was the hero of that, but he was the villain.
He was telling about Terminator 2, but that's another matter.
I watched those movies so many hundreds of times when I was palpably too young to be watching
them, because my parents, my parents would stop us from watching things like, I remember
my parents saw pulp fiction, and it's kind of worse thing they could possibly have said
to me, because I said, how was it? And they said, really brilliant.
And I said, oh, great. Can I watch those? No, no.
Why would you say that the movie was good? I was like 10 years old. I said, why would you
say the film was good? But they saw the Terminator box. They thought, yeah, it's robots and lasers
who cares. And then, you know, meanwhile, they're walking the room and a guy's using a fountain
pen to dig his eye out. I do think my mum at the heart point was like, oh, okay, I think
we might have missed red just a stretch. I mean, some people still aren't really sure
what Terminator is about. Look, I was impressed. So I want to learn, I'm just going to get, come
on. I'm just going to get a message out on my phone that we received from Anna. Well,
I think about this as my first serious relationship was with a guy. It was for three years, and he
was obsessed with the Terminator films. Anna, please, we need to read out the evidence
before we have your response to it. Anna Tajinsky, the concept of Terminator is absolutely
mental. I just thought it was about a metal bloke killing people, which at the most
basic level, it is. I think you've said there is incorrect. I suppose it has more layers than
I expect. Yeah, you've not disproved your initial assumption. No, metal bloke is actually
sort of perfect description. There was a real like between Terminator and Robocop. My
childhood was defined by metal bloke. Yes, we have piranha to thank for Terminator. I didn't
know about this. So basically piranha to happens, and it's a disaster, he develops a high fever.
He's in Rome. Yes. So at this stage, he's not being paid anymore. Is that right? No, he's
off the clock. Yeah, this is the story. This is the crazy inception of Terminator. He goes
into, he's hospitalized with this really high fever, but while he's in hospital, probably
because of the piranha to stressful, sacking all that, he has this vision of a skeleton
robot coming out of a fire metal, metal, metal bloke. And crawling, because that's the only
bit Terminator I've seen is, you know, that scene where he's crawling in the top of him. I
don't know what happened to the bottom, but he's pointing towards that woman. I couldn't
look at how his side I was on. So in the piranha to debacle, asanitis, sound like a bit
of a douchebag as well, the producer. But I mean, he did talk about James Cameron, and
like he is obviously a massive control freak, and he said, so asanitis, I don't know, I'm
not saying it's name right, but asanitis, that's better. And that was much better. What's in
the name of Super Mario Brothers? He did say Cameron was very arrogant, and he said at one
point, he just came out of his office, and he saw his crew, the entire crew, and set way
out in the distance out to sea on a bunch of boats when they were meant to be on the beach
filming. And the first assistant director was fully clothed, swimming towards the shore.
And he got to the shore and he pulled himself up onto the beach and he shouted at asanitis.
That got his amaniac, as in James Cameron's amaniac. I'm out of here. And James can say asanitis,
like, what's he done? Why are you all out at sea? He was like, James Cameron saw the perfect
shaped cloud. And he knew we had to film it. So the entire crew and set is now on a series
of boats out at sea chasing a cloud. I'm just following. The whole thing with clouds
is like, oh, that one looks like a giraffe. Oh, it doesn't look like a giraffe.
They changed shapes. That's so weird. And listen, maybe this is, you know, and I say this
is a huge fan of his work, and maybe this is a bit of snobbery on my part. But when you hear
stories like that about Kubrick or Karasawa, you're like, yeah, of course, you have to get the
perfect thing. This is what you're making is this kind of, this is a sort of work of art.
When you hear about piranha too, you think, what's your fucking mind?
The other thing that I always like to bring to this, this is actually something that James A.
Castor introduced me to. And it's a real obsession of his. So in the book, The Futurist,
the Life and Films of James Cameron by Rebecca Keegan, she narrates a story about the shoot of Aliens.
And Aliens shot a Pinewood and I think Star Wars shot at L Street. And both of those films have
the kind of same experience, which is an American director doing a science fiction film that
is a British crew of, you know, pretty hardened union guys. Yeah. Cannot have any respect for
all of them. And like, they used to call when they were shooting Star Wars, they used to
just refer to the shoe back at costume as the dog. And so on the final day of shooting Aliens,
and this evening according to Rebecca Keegan's book, this is what James Cameron says to the crew.
This has been a longer difficult shoot, fraught by many problems. But the one thing that kept me going
through it all was the certain knowledge that one day I would drive out of the gates of Pinewood
and never come back here and that you sorry bastards would all still be here.
That's it's like rousing end of shoot speech. That's what Dan Schreiber says to us every episode.
Before he goes on holiday. Yeah. Yeah. One day I thought there were huge problems with tea breaks.
Yeah. Yeah. It's an Aliens. Star Wars and Aliens alike. Basically the crew.
Now very clearly when they're when they are they get the tea break. Yeah. You got a union tea break
and Cameron is there being an otter and same but we need to film the 28 hours to get this perfect
shot in this perfect way and they're saying well we can't. We're going for our tea break. I love it.
And I read that he made movie posters Cameron before he got into directing. And that he basically
didn't watch the films because they're all terrible. So he just got the name of it and he would
just make something that he thought look cool and then send it in. Yeah. But in Mender he was really a
control freak with the posters for his movies. Wow. And so with Aliens some guy showed him what he
thought the posters should be for Aliens and he said honestly if I have the choice between that
piece of shit and an all black frame I'll go with the all black frame. And this guy obviously wasn't
really listening and he then went to his designers and went he wants an all black frame.
And then we have the iconic so I mean it just says the word Aliens. Yeah. Right. Yeah.
I think the strap line is this time it's war because the idea is in the first film there's one
alien in the second film there are thousands and it's you know it's kind of a bit of a
Vietnam analogy you know disastrous overconfident American Marines heading into a war that
like that runs out of control but I think supposedly he invented the this time it's blah.
Well maybe was that I think was that this time was that before this time it's personal I know that
was jaws wasn't it jaws too. Was it jaws too this time it's but was that not first
jaws. That's first jaws it's business. It's business. Third jaws this time it's pleasure.
About the shark and Brody going on a land holiday. Do you know what we have jaws to thank for
the Terminator? Oh really? Because we have Piranha 2 to thank for Terminator. Piranha 1 to thank
for Piranha 2 and Piranha 1 only existed because Steve it was like a ripoff of jaws and Steven
Spielberg went to watch it and they were going to sue and say you can't make this and Steven Spielberg
enjoyed it so much he was like I don't sue them this is really great. And it's that boy because then he
Joe Dante then yeah exactly. He produced Gremlins. Yeah. So that's amazing. That's really cool.
We have so many things I haven't seen to thank for so many other things I haven't seen.
I'm really grateful to him. We're the same age. What are you doing? I didn't know. I was going out.
We should move on to fact number two that's my fact. My fact this week is that the inventor of stand-up
comedy was known as the man who talks with string because he was never well I will tell you what
because he was never seen anywhere without his lucky string. Consider yourself admonished.
That's what. That's what if you weren't going to clarify it.
Now it's just going to be the end of this. Moving on to find something for you.
The inventor of stand-up comedy was known as the man of string. Okay anyway who's got a fact
about Roger Coleman? I just also want to clarify he's not a man of string. He's not made of string.
He just carries string. So we've got metal men, we've got string men. Not a man who talks with string
as he talks but he's holding string. Exactly yes. This is a guy called Charlie Case. He tends to be
referred to as the person who invented stand-up comedy although obviously there's a lot of facets
to stand-up so lots of rivals in that claim but he was born in 1858 so it was late 19th century.
This is in a book called The Legacy of the Wisecrack which I mentioned because I had some other
interesting bits in it and he was basically the first person who took to the stage as it says with
the explicit purpose of telling jokes to make people laugh. No props, no, well no costume they say
although at the time almost everyone did black face on stage and he did do that. But I already
was mixed, he was mixed race, right? Well it's very unclear. It's not, yeah. The records are a bit.
His obituaries say they think he was mixed race but black people and white people at the time would
go in black face. And black people was blacked up sort of as way into the industry because of
the white form. Is that it? Yeah, very strange. And we really don't know with him. I think he probably
was but people didn't mention it in his life and then in his obituaries everyone was like he had a
black parent and he had this string that he always carried on stage and he fiddled with it constantly
couldn't be without it. A couple of times he forgot it and if no replacement could be found
he just fully you know broke down. He said I might as well be without my hand and he explained it he's
said when he first went into business he wore a pair of black gloves and he would fiddle with them
and toy with one and then pick at the fingers and eventually a bit like when you give a baby a rag
and then after five years you realize it's just a string he'd picked it his gloves so much.
Oh really? Like a blanket rather than a rag usually. Why are you giving a baby a rag? Give
him a rag. No you know what is this is we need to start toughening up the younger one. Give him a
rock. Give him a rag. But there you go so he needed that and he you know he really did he couldn't
be without it. That's amazing. And I guess like it's to do something with your hands right?
Like that's the thing. Yeah exactly. I don't think I've never heard this man's name in my life
before. That's fascinating. He is not famous. It makes sense that it's in that period because
he is sometimes we're still referred to as the turn and I never really understood why that was
and it's because in boardville shows when they were turning the set from you know the acrobat to the
sort of marching band they would put the curtain down and somebody would come out and tell jokes
to stop the audience from getting bored. So they were turning the set behind the curtain. So the
person telling the jokes is still sometimes referred to as the turn or front of curtain entertainers
and it's because I love that. Yeah it's like it's you know particularly like a lot of the like
old school guys who do lots of gigs at like Blackpool or sort of butlin's we'll call us front of
curtain and we were basically just there to stop the audience from getting bored. Yeah. Sometimes
obviously how the opposite effects depends on who you employ. Oh listen I'm I'm really struggled in
the boardville yes. I'm in a real struggle. Half the audience have left and they are asking for
their money back. They thought they were going to see elephants and instead of seeing man yelling
out David Lloyd George. He was really sticking it to Gladstone by that. No we need to clear the stage
at the end of the show. So if you could come on there. Clear the auditorium. So this guy was
he British. What's he? Oh my gosh. Charlie Case. I think he was American. American. I think he was
American. They were also had they had the same sort of tradition of boardville and when you do stand-up
in a match and theatre like the Victorians say what you will about them then you two things
colonizing my ancestors and building theatres and when you do stuff in a match and theatre you
understand oh this is what this is built for because the acoustics are so unbelievably good. A
thousand seat room has the same sonic dynamics as a 300 seat basement. Yeah. Yeah. It took 150
years. It's unbelievable. You know I'm thinking of something like the Hackney Empire has loads of
stand-up they have a pantomime every year and then Robin just did a gig there like when her last
album came out. I think she did like a special sort of small gig and so you're like there's very
few places where you can put like Robin a pantomime and me. Can I just ask Andy which Robin you felt?
Yeah. I don't think that man and I just think I thought Robin ints. Was it neither of those?
No, it was now. It was Robin. It was R-O-B-Y-E. Yeah. Isn't there also, isn't it Robin Thickey?
Robin Thickey now. Robin Thickey is popular musician, opposite end innovation-wise. Possibly
considered a de-innovator. She threw pop music forward five years and then he actually was a useful
corrective to say. An innovator. He was an innovator. He's sort of the equivalent of the Barbarian
Horde smashing up right by that. I thought, is Nishon first name terms with Robin Thickey?
Is this likely? It can't be. It makes more sense because I am on first time terms of Robin
it. That's what I thought. Thickey and I, I'm going to amaze you here. We've never crossed paths.
I was looking at some superstitious comedians. So I looked at Hilda Baker who was a Bolton
comedian from the 1950s and she considered the colour green to be so bad luck that you weren't allowed.
No one was allowed to be green in the whole theatre but apparently this is quite a common thing
or it certainly was in the mid-20th century and the reason is that Mollier who died on stage during
the Hyperconjure Act was apparently wearing green when he died on stage. I've never heard this before.
That's also why because Tommy Cooper, of course, died on stage wearing that square red hat with
the fuzz and no one wears that anywhere. I just know Mollier, Tommy Cooper. It's incredible.
They didn't call it that, but yeah. In the Hyperconjure Act as well.
Was he playing the title? Oh my god. So people thought it was part of that.
And would he be coming off, you know, in between scenes saying I'm really not feeling well
and they're saying, "Oh, I know, of course the rules." That was your day losing it.
Of course we don't call it that though.
But that was the thing with Tommy Cooper, right? He collapsed and people thought it was a bit.
Are you superstitious niche about any aspect of a show?
I'm trying to think about sort of pre-show rituals. The most important thing that I always do
is I always piss before I go, like I'm obsessed. Even if I don't need it, I'll try and force
one out. And I think part of it is because I've read this thing. Apparently David Cameron used to
give speeches on the slightly full bladder because he thinks there's some idea that...
That's an episode of Friends as well. Oh, is it?
Joey gets a role. Yeah. Where he really needs, and they're just so impressed by his urgency.
His urgency, yeah, because he needs to be. Yeah, and he starts doing it for every role.
Apparently having to pee makes me a really good actor.
Yeah. So Cameron, David Cameron is the same.
But then I also read that he got that that Hitler used to do that as well. And I think I don't
know whether any of that's correct, but when I've read that, I thought, well, I want to be like
Hitler or Cameron. I'm going to make sure I speak with the empty is bladder possible in front of an
audience. You know what? I always have a wee before I go on stage as well. But I also I do the wee
and I sit down when I'm doing the wee. And then I sit down for another 20 seconds and then usually
a little bit more comes out. And I got that tip from Sandy Toxfig who got it apparently from Princess
Sam. What? And I thought I want to be like Sandy Toxfig in Princess Sam. So that's why there's always more
pee. But according to Princess Sam. Yeah. Just holding back. Princess Sam, you got a UTI girl.
That's fascinating. I'm just I'm so disappointed that when you say I was people going on stage because
David Cameron, I was just desperate for it to be that David Cameron once went on stage.
Like a star is born. Just a really dark Tory party conference. Or just after the EU referendum,
after we walked out of Downic Street and that was the result and quit. He just immediately pissed
himself. That he was wearing dark trousers. That conference where they all stood really
like a power party. That's why he was doing it. Oh my god. On the comedians superstitions,
Carol Burnett, first woman ever to host a variety show, I think. She at the end of every show for a
whole I've talked to her, like did a little eartug. She's 93. So I shouldn't lie much that little eartug
in her show. Do you know why she did that? Why? When she went to do her first show which was the
Paul Winchell and Jerry Mahoney show in December 1955. She was 22 years old. She was playing the girl
friend of her puppet. And she told her grandma and Nanny. She was like, I'm going to be on telly.
And then Nanny said, oh say hello to me, will you? And she said, I can't really do that on TV,
but I'll give you a little sign this. Oh my god. And for ever more. And she said it just means,
she said at first it meant Nanny, I'm here and I love you. And then later it meant Nanny,
I'm here and I love you and your checks in the mail. Oh that's so nice. That's really nice.
Pavarotti. Oh yeah. Funny. Funny guy. Really good comedian. It's a shame because it's on the
undercard of his career, but he was a funny dude. He was a very substituous and he wanted to find a
bent nail before a performance backstage. And he believed that if you found one, that's really good luck.
And it's a theatre. So there are, you know, the carpentry going on is often a nail around the stage,
but his iron would frequently just leave nails strewn around so that Pavarotti would find one
before a gig. Just like quickly, yeah. Therefore have a great show. That's probably the kind of stuff
my tour manager does without me really fully understanding it. I think there's a lot of unseen work being
done. To get me on stage. Harold Lloyd. Oh yeah. Very superstitious. He had a nice big house
near Hollywood and there was an ornamental fountain outside of it and he thought it was extremely
bad luck to drive around the fountain. Oh wow. And so he never did it at any time in his life and the
only time he ever did it was the hers on the way to the funeral. Okay, and he entrusted his own funeral.
Yes, exactly. And the interesting thing about this is his house after he died became like a filming
location. And in the Godfather, Westworld, Beverly Hills Cop and Commando, someone drives around
that fountain and then later in the movie suffers a horrible horrific death. No. Has it written it in?
Oh wow. That's very nice. That's so cool. That's not good. That's nicer than what we all
thought, which was that just someone had a horrific death. Okay, so I'm in fact number three and that's
Andy. My correct is when David Bowie auditioned for the BBC in 1965, the judges ruled that he was
a singer, devoid of personality, that his band was not particularly exciting and that there is no
entertainment in anything they do. There is no entertainment in anything they do. It's unambiguous.
This guy is going nowhere. That's not your shit, is it? It's really important. Yeah, it's much more
scientific. So this was the thing that existed. It was called the Talent Selection Group and it
was a BBC institution that pulled together various radio producers to just assess everyone who wanted,
you know, to be played on BBC Radio. Right, yeah. So, very young. Yeah, I mean, 69 when he died in
2016 and I can't, I'm now struggling to do the basic mathematics. So he would have been 18, 17
or 18. So he was, he was very young and playing with a band and the band was called David Bowie and
the Lower Third and it doesn't sound like it was a good audition. I mean, you know, I don't think it's
too... I mean, when you're 18, exactly. Exactly. See the picture of him, I think he was, he must have
been playing the sax and singing it. Well, they did three songs because that's what you brought
to the Talent Selection Group. One of them was by Bowie himself. One of them was by James Brown.
The third one was Chim Chimeree from Mary Poppins, which is a rogue choice. That makes 100%
sense to me. Like, if you think about his music, it is music that exists at the intersection between
James Brown and Mary Poppins. Like, actually think about it. If you really think about it, there is
like this interesting combination of black American music and English whimsy and actually there is
something of both of those in Ziggy Star Tuts. Well, if you've been on the Talent Selection
Group, maybe it would have gone differently. Another verdict, I don't think the group will get better
with more rehearsals. Just devastating, you know. One of the most wavering things I've ever heard.
Give them all the time of the world. They're not going to change, you know?
Terrible. That was terrible and you've peaked.
Peaks? Really? It's a bit like Simon Cowell, isn't it? Would you say, like kind of slightly
withering sort of... Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I don't think it was big dogs. I just think it was
random producers from across the beam who were pulled in to... Yeah, right. And they assessed a load of
different acts. They came up with various quite roby judgments on acts who went on to be huge.
But it's an audition. It's at the very start of your career. They don't all go well, you know?
And he took ages to get a success for that. I hadn't realised. I think by 1969, before he was a
tall famous, he'd already been in seven bands, many of which he founded. The 1969 Space Audity
was rushed out to coincide with the moon landings and was like the theme tune for that and was huge.
But then he disappeared again. Yeah. And I don't think I've had another hit for about four years.
Yeah. No, he didn't disappear. He's just as simply moved. He was living in Bromley.
Oh, yes. Which is essentially the same thing.
I'm sorry, he was a beckon of it at that point. But yeah, he was sort of that period of his life
after he turns 18. He kind of gets very fixated on this like mind teacher who it is like a really,
really influential person in his life. But also it's worth seeking out some of the kind of first
album, which I think is self-tight or maybe it's called Space Audity. It is. It's worth checking out
that ear of it because it is not, I say this as a very, very big benefit. You've hidden it well.
Sorry. No problem. Well, of course, Beckham is in Bromley. So it was, it's bad.
It sort of bow at this point is he sort of goes through so many different iterations. And yeah,
he falls in with, he goes studies at my school. Then he, the first album is sort of very like flower
power, like tail end of summer of love. Okay. But then the shift between that and the man who sold the
world is extraordinary, right? It is an incredible transition. He basically really gets into the
velvet underground. And that is the thing that kind of unlocks. He's just trying all sorts of things.
He's trying so much out. Yeah. Can I just say one thing on the mind thing? Because I've fun
out a little about this. This is insane. So he falls in with this mind artist called Lindsey Kemp,
right? And becomes so entranced that Bowie nearly abandons music for interpretive dance. Yeah.
When he was, again, not very famous yet, he opened for T-Rex. He supported them on, you know,
at all, as a one man mime act depicting China's invasion of Tibet. Brilliant. And that is a challenge.
That's a, like that's a challenge, right? As a one man. Yeah. It's my favourite. It's not enough
that there are a few of you. You've got to think outside the tiny and physical box.
Basically, the T-Rex audience hated it. Yeah. Two reasons. One. Come on, we're here to see T-Rex.
And secondly, a lot of them were communist. So this was a few months before space. He later wrote
to John Peel who'd seen this and said, you decided the problem was that I was doing mime. You didn't
like mime. And until I came here to America, I never realised that you were right. Nobody in the
world liked mime. He'd used it in saying food. And listen, thank God that doesn't exist. Because I
imagine it doesn't now look high on. It looks like Mickey reunion breakfast at Tiffany's. I imagine.
I imagine. But weirdly, that's, you know, Lindsey Kent was a huge influence on him creatively and
they were lovers at the time. When you look at things like Ziggy, when you look at the video for
Ashes to Ashes, even though that was sort of because he was also falling in with the neuromantics
in the early 80s, you still see the influence of theatre and mime. Oh yeah, definitely. Yeah, it was,
it was, I mean, we loved him anyway, but also it was really exciting because I went to school
in Orpington down the road from the school he went to, but he lived in Beckham and they tried to
get him to come back. In the early 2000s, he was like, absolutely not. When he went to America,
in interviews, he would refer to things as being so crueyden if they were bad. But he was, that's why,
you know, like the Buddha of Suburbia, the whole novel is really about growing up in Beckham and
Bromley and feeling depressed until you realise David Bowie lived there. That's like how that, like,
unlocks the protagonist's creativity and sexuality. I was the same with Hilda Baker,
the Bolton comedian from the 1930s. I think everyone from Bolton, you've only just started
wearing green now. One of the formative moments of his life came from that time in Beckham's
last Bromley, where he's, so he's famously his eyes sort of look like the different colours,
don't they? And this has actually put me off in a bit, and I messaged, down try the cruel we're doing
a podcast about David Bowie, who down try, but absolutely loved. But saying, I don't really like him,
I think it came from this when he was 15, he had best friend George, they're both fancy the same
girl, and George got a date with her. And Bowie called George and said, listen, I've spoken to her,
and she doesn't want to go out with you actually, but she doesn't want to say to your face.
So George doesn't show up, then finds out Bowie's tricked him, and then goes into school next day,
and Bowie's boasting about how he's now going out with this girl. So George, quite right, goes and
clocks him in the face in the playground, damages his eyeballs, and he really didn't mean to hurt him,
but what the matter? Funny way of going about it. I would have heard him emotionally when I put
him in the face, yeah. It didn't mean to cause him permanent damage, but it gave him this condition
called anastocoria, where one pupil is larger than the other. So his eyes aren't different colors,
it's just one pupil's small, so it looks like his eyes are like colored. And I really like this from
an interview with a magazine, I think someone written into the magazine with questions for Bowie,
and one of the people said, hey, what would you say to that kid at school who punched you in the eye
in case he's reading? And Bowie said, I'd probably say something along the lines of, it was great
seeing you last week, George, did I leave my lighter in your car? Because they remain very close.
So you said that he almost gave up to be a mime. He also almost gave up to be a Buddhist monk,
didn't he? And that's because he got in with some Buddhist monks in London, but also he read a book,
The Rampa Story by Tuesday Lopsang Rampa. Andy remembers as a friend of the podcast. He's a big deal.
He is a big deal. Because he was not a Buddhist monk. He was in no way a Buddhist monk. He was a
plumber from Devon who pretended to be a Buddhist monk and wrote about this about his life as a
Tibetan monk until people kind of came to his shows and said, can you read this thing that's
in Tibetan? He said, I can't really read Tibetan and I've never been to Tibet. And he said, it's not
my fault. I was possessed by the spirit of a monk when I fell out of a tree trying to photograph an
owl. That's right. And then they said, yeah, that's not true. Is it either? And he went, oh no, no,
fine. Actually, it was all dictated to me by a Siamese cat called Mrs. Fifi Gray Whiskers.
Yes. The point is that a lot of the Buddhist sort of things that was happening
in the time and everyone getting into Buddhism was down to this guy's book and he was
going, he was not the dude. That's amazing. Mrs. Fifi Gray Whiskers, the cat later wrote, I think two of
her own books. Through Tuesday, lobster grandpa. And one of them is called Living with the Lama.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's true. Yeah. It's hard when a cat writes a book called Living with the Lama
because I think you do have to clarify in brackets afterwards that you mean the Lama as in,
you can do a lot with the cover art. You can do a lot with the cover art.
Yeah. I'm afraid you are not getting away with a James Cameron Black square on that one.
That it's essential that we clarify with the cover art. Yeah. That's so funny. That's a
bowie rampa. Yeah. The entire way. You have understanding. That's amazing.
So, what you bowie fans? Big bowie fans. What's the view on the whole? Thin White Duke,
quite intense flirtation with fascism, Nazism, that kind of stuff.
One word for the Nazi stuff. Your friend of mine, cocaine. If you watch the Allen Yen Top
Documentary Cracked Actor, which is his US tour, I think in '76, '75, '76, you can't believe he
didn't immediately drop dead. The rumor is at the time that he was subsisting exclusively on a
diet of cocaine and milk. But he is in a psycho. He's coped himself into a psychosis. There's a bit in it
where he just starts going. They're following me. They're following me. And he is truly in a kind of
psychosis. And I think people want to intellectualise it and say, well, he had this fascination with
you. It's not any of that. He did read a lot of books. He did read a lot of books about the Nazis.
But I think people want to talk about it as a kind of intellectual, like an extension of his
interesting character and performance. He was gacked out of his mind. And I don't mean your friend
who's standing too close to you at a party and ask you if everyone hates him. I mean, he was seeing
things. David Bowie was such an extreme party animal that he kept to go to Berlin to clean up.
To go to Berlin to get drugs out of his system. That's how many drugs he had in his system.
Can I just say reading lots of books about Hitler and the Nazis is not actually a side of anything
that's just a sign of being a middle-aged man. I'm currently plowing through the last days of Hitler
and it's terrific. That's it really. No spoilers, please. I saw him on the last tour he did in 2004,
and he had something like a kind of heart valve problem about two months later and then he never
toured again. He sort of would make like these intermittent public appearances, but I went on my own.
This is an period where I was going on my own to see a lot of gigs. And I saw him and James Brown
in kind of quite quick succession. Oh, and Mary Poppins, I hope you've heard of it.
The David Bowie gig is the only time someone asked me if I was lost and needed.
Wow, the only time. Are you okay? Are you lost? I was like, no, I'm here to see David Bowie.
And I've always carried resentment towards a man who was sat two rows in front of me wearing a
Lou Reed transformer t-shirt. And I at the time, well, I remain a big Lou Reed fan, but I was really
a big fan of the Lou Reed album transformer at the time. And Bowie said, we're going to do a song
by the Velvet Underground and I cheered. Better of mine, I'm at this gig on my own. And I assumed
the man in the Lou Reed T-shirt would also cheer. And he didn't. And I was like, you're the fan of
only Lou Reed solo output. You've got no time for white, like white heat. Maybe he's not just not a
cheerer, you know? He really made me look like an absolute twerp. That is, I would say, the
smallest grudge I've ever heard. I'm carried for the longest time. Cause of how long you've kept
something two years. I still think about that kind of like the guy in the Lou Reed T-shirt.
We should move on to our final fact of the show. And that is James's fact.
Okay, my fact this week is that the Swedish political party called the center party
and the Danish political party called left are both right wing.
Are they trying to just now sneaky votes? No, not really. So I was reading the article on
electoralreform.org.uk and it was a list of badly named parties. Basically, these parties all started
off kind of left of center 100, 150 years ago and things change. Like the Democrats and Republicans
swapped over a couple of times I think of what they believe. And also the what's that window called
Overton. The Overton window moved. So people who were a little bit left wing or a bit right wing
and now more centrist or whatever. And that's what's happened with these two parties which is the
Swedish center party and thenster which is the Danish for left. And the Danish one is the main
right of center party and has been for 25 years. And the center party, it depends on their leaders
because they are a little bit centrist but at the moment they're more right wing. But you can't
change the name. It's easier to change your opinions. I guess because everyone knows what the
party is. Everyone knows. Everyone in Denmark knows this party. Yeah. I like that you say it's
easier to change your opinions. You're suggesting rather than change the names they should just become
left wing. I wasn't really suggesting anything. I hadn't finished that thought. It is a bit like
you've crispy cream doughnuts. We're like we're plumbers now but we've got a really strong brand
you could just change it. No, no, crispy cream. Listen, I will say in terms of tailoring this podcast
episode to your guest, this could not be more clearly my internet searches. It's my electoral reform.org.
James Cameron's Wikipedia page and a video of David Bowie talking about the internet.
Denmark also has the radical left party Radicale von Strup. Where are they? Where are they at?
They're on the left but they're the least radical of all the left wing. Something with radical
in its name. It's centrist. It is the problem. Listen, I am painting with a broad brush here and
there is more nuance to these things but it is sort of the problem of talking about scandalovian
politics because you're like these guys are really right wing. They only believe in partially
comprehensive state cover for. I think the thing that distinguishes them is they're a party's
that they're basically parties that are like that are socialist socialists and they're a party's
that are nationalist socialists. When you say nationalist socialists that has
there's still some people there's still some consensus around some economic principles
but I think there's more some more divergence around. So we believe that everyone gets a
year's maternity or potentially but we do also believe in invading parties. I believe there's
an element of that. There's a lot of anti-Muslim sentiment among certain parts of Scandinavia.
So there's a guy called Rasmus Paladin who's a former member of venstera. He's probably the most
famous right wing politician in Denmark and he's like Bern Karams and stuff like that. But there's
a group called free jazz against Paladin that follows him around the country and plays jazz very
loudly and very badly at all of his events. Is jazz the right I'm not saying they're doing it badly
but it's just the right genre of music to I suppose it's quite surprising you know it goes in
a new direction so it's quite useful. Famously anti-communist jazz wasn't it was pushed by America to
kind of stop communists from liking communism. Well and also the musicians themselves were not
were not aware sometimes genuinely not aware. Nina Simone died without ever knowing that she
yeah but an African tour of hers oh god what you've got to watch a movie called soundtrack to
a coup d'etat soundtrack to a coup d'etat is an incredible film about these American state-funded
operations to send jazz musicians as kind of soft power missions around around the world. It's one
of the best documentaries I've ever seen. And they didn't know that they were being so important yeah
they didn't they didn't know that where the money was coming from and but also you know a lot like
we've had another 300 million dollars in the account. No one likes jazz. Yeah sorry what's the
was the reasoning that it's with the CIA stopped people liking communism. Specifically in the African
continent sometimes they were cover operations for the sort of traveling state department delegations
that would go out with them but also a lot of these musicians did not have rights in their own country
right and there's some really heartbreaking stuff in the documentary about Louis Armstrong and
the kind of disgust that he feels because he doesn't understand that he's being used as propaganda
for a white government that is not giving him rights in his own country. Yeah it is it is really
really brilliant and sinister and what was done to remember in that country by western government
in service of the mining companies because they might have liberated these countries but they did not
take the huge mining companies out of those countries and the cobalt in bones still comes from the
Democratic Republic of Congo and there are still western countries that might not have colonized
them in the conventional sense but the large corporations that are exploiting these countries for
their mineral resources are effectively financially colonizing them and and now this podcast has really
taken the full combater because in the Soviet Union the idea was that they had certain approved
musicians and approved literature and approved all this kind of stuff so if you shove in some jazz
singers some surrealist art stuff like that then people will start thinking in a non-communist way
that's sort of freedom freedom Jackson Pollock was he yeah he was they just wanted to get rid of him
some more weird names in politics have you guys heard or have we ever talked about the tiny
Indian state of Megalaya Megalaya Megalaya this place is extraordinary so they there's a weird trend
for weird names there like loads of people they're called the kids weird names no one really knows
where it came from just like people from this Indian state call the kids strange names which means
that people who run for political office often have weird names so people who've run for political
office there include Frankenstein moment field martial more pianos in first name field second name
martial right good Billy Kid Sangmar and someone who's gained office there is Adolf Loo Hitler
Rangsack Morack who's an Indian politician of the National Congress party he was a minister in
their government he was asked if he thought awkward about it and he said I am aware at one point in
time Adolf Hitler was the most hated person on earth but my father added Loo in between the Adolf
and the Hitler so that's why I am different and you were very disappointed when you got his
biography weren't you a lot more regional Indian politics than I had really bargained for and the
cover was just a black square you we really could have done with the clarification cover art there
I think it's interesting how political parties arose in the first place I think they were
invented in Britain certainly in Britain it was the Wigs and the Tories yeah and that was the end
of the 17th century and it was all to do with the Catherine question of Catholic succession
which is a big deal for a long time and it was very controversial and the Wigs wanted it was
about the Duke of York actually should the Duke of York be in the line of succession and why do we
think now that Rages are the Wigs are coming back going I told you yeah Wigs wanted them out
and Tories were much more arch-traditionalists than they wanted to preserve the succession
but so what they were trying to conserve was the Catholic line of succession yes yeah yeah I mean
it's it's maybe better up so down for what we think today but were they called the Tories they were
called the Tories and not the Conservatives at that time Tories was originally an insult it's
kind of Irish banded and I think Wigs is also a kind of insult right every party name starts
off as an insult and then devolved in fact for me poop party yeah exactly you got to be
careful the insults you embrace but yeah in actually because we were talking about Swedish politics
Sweden was dominated by the hats and the caps for about a hundred years they were the two parties
and the caps were it was an insult so the hats were meant to be the like strong militaristic they were
named after the big trichot hats that like probably posh people had members of government military
and then they said you cat you night caps and they were referring to the you know this floppy like
we really really did they were them like did they embrace it and wear them on the campaign I don't
think they actually went into the trouble of sourcing night caps and embracing them but they embrace
their names the caps and they were like they were the Wigs and the Tories of the day still worn
would you say night caps because I obviously do well I've got one yeah yeah but I just want to know
if anyone I would be curious if anyone wears a night cap it's to help manage curly hair yes that's
that's true bonnets are still used yeah are they used night are they called night caps I don't know
were there many bonnets normally known as bonnets yeah were they used to keep your head warm is that
the point of them yeah so yeah it's so much colder back of the day yeah I would assume that it's
the little ice age yeah yeah yeah if you still wear a night cap to bed podcast at qa.com absolutely
send them the picture if anyone's still wearing a night cap with love they are listening to it
that's pretty honest a big Ebony's excruzion that's what that's what I want that's what I want
yeah you want to come on upstairs for a night cap just two people sat in hats one of them looking
confused and disappointed I'll get the warming pan I do like a frivolous party oh yeah I'm big
fan of the occasional protest parties one of them I mean the Wikipedia of frivolous political
parties is terrific and you just want to read through so many places that have frivolous parties
that's beer related very interesting as the friends of beer check Belarus beer lovers party
Austria beer party Australia lower excise fuel and beer party I just goes on Germany norway
Poland Romania Ukraine they've all got a beer lovers party or a beer party yeah there was definitely
a light beer versus dark beer political rivalry as well I think in the late 19th century yeah but I
like and in Denmark the union of conscientiously workshite elements which I don't think we've
actually met before founded by Jacob howard in 1979 and so he they were demanding lots of man's
stuff and it was complete joke like better Christmas presents for everyone Nutella for all army
field rations better weather tailwinds on all bike cars better weather more Denmark more Renaissance
furniture in IKEA yeah yeah yeah of course you'd back at Andy but in 1994 he was elected how God
was elected unexpectedly really didn't expect to be got 23,000 votes and it was a hung parliament
so suddenly he was in this extraordinary position of having the deciding vote in a lot a lot of
situations so when the when the lib Dems came in and did a coalition with pantaries they said well
we will do it if we can have one of our policies which is proportional representation yeah what
which one did he go for he yeah they genuinely did introduce Nutella into our world very good yeah
that's amazing the lib Dems didn't get PR over the line so these guys are still technically one
up on the lib Dems yeah did they have a referendum about the Nutella it's an easier one to win
isn't it he did say in a moment of foresight he made a portrait of him be he got a portrait done
for him and had it hung in parliament and he said he commissioned it to warn people that any crazy
populace moron could get elected and this was in the early 90s so we learned our lesson we learned
two links there was a survey this year of places in the north cox's and they asked for people who
you think would be a good person who your leader espouses their views and a lot of people went for
Stalin in fact I think Stalin might have been the top respondent but 4% of people said that they
wanted their leader to be like t800 from the Terminator movie and we're wow and we're back and he
is that the baddie or is this the second time he's the baddie in the first one and the gooddie
in the second one he gets reprogrammed and he goes from being a baddie to he's like Nick Clegg
I see but the reverse one he's trying to get people to go into the metaverse and in the second
one it's promising to get rid of student debt the old reverse legacy
okay we should wrap up on that thank you so much for listening we have been no such thing as a fish
and thank you to my co-podcasters James Harkin Andrew Hunter Murray and Nishkuma Nishkuma if people
want to contact you where can they do it contact me you can find me at nishkuma.co.uk and I'm
Mr Nishkuma on Instagram and some other platforms I think but you can watch me doing 97 minutes of
stand-up if that's something that you'd be interested in on YouTube or you can buy tickets from
my tool or you could do both now such thing as a nish thank you lovely stuff and Andy and James you
also have social media profiles which you've mentioned lots of times before so I'm sure you all
know them and you can contact the podcast by emailingpodcas@QI.com or go to @nosuchthing on Instagram
and if you want access to our secret special club which has lots of extra content we release our
dual which are listener feedback episodes on there and are the exciting things as they come along
just go to patreon.com/clubfish to find out more about that but for now we will see you again next week
goodbye
(upbeat music)
[BLANK_AUDIO]